# Contributing to Curations

Thank you for considering contributing to Curations! ❤️ I appreciate the time and effort you dedicate to making this project better. The following guidelines will help you understand how to contribute effectively.

## Table of Contents

1. [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
2. [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
   - [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
   - [Requesting Features](#requesting-features)
   - [Submitting Pull Requests](#submitting-pull-requests)
3. [Development Setup](#development-setup)
   - [Database Setup](#database-setup)
   - [Project Setup](#project-setup)
4. [Coding Guidelines](#coding-guidelines)
   - [Commit Messages](#commit-messages)
   - [Code Formatting](#code-formatting)

## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it are governed by the [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior to anantkumar312@gmail.com.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Bugs

Before reporting a bug, please ensure that you are using the latest version of the project. If the issue still exists, create a new issue on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/dubeyanant/Curations/issues) with a clear title and description. Include as much relevant information as possible to help us understand and reproduce the problem.

### Requesting Features

If you have a feature request, open an issue on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/dubeyanant/Curations/issues) with a clear title and description. Explain why the feature is beneficial and provide any relevant details or examples.

### Submitting Pull Requests

1. Fork the repository and create a new branch from `main`.
2. Make your changes, ensuring that your code follows the [coding guidelines](#coding-guidelines).
3. Update the documentation if necessary.
4. Open a pull request, providing a detailed description of the changes made and why they are necessary.

## Development Setup

### Project Setup

To set up the development environment, ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) installed, and then proceed with the following steps:

1. Fork this repository.
2. Clone your repository:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:<your_username>/Curations.git
   ```
3. Install pnpm:
   ```bash
   npm install -g pnpm
   ```
4. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```
5. Do [Database Setup](#database-setup)
6. Run the development server:
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

### Database Setup

1. Go to [Supabase](https://supabase.com/) and sign in. If you are already signed in, navigate to your dashboard.
2. Start a new project and name it "curations".
3. Create a table named "data". You can use their UI to create the table or use the following query to create the table:

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE
   public.data (
       id bigint GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY,
       created_at timestamp with time zone NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
       url text NULL DEFAULT ''::text,
       "urlImg" text NULL DEFAULT ''::text,
       name text NULL DEFAULT ''::text,
       quote text NULL DEFAULT ''::text,
       author text NULL DEFAULT ''::text,
       type text NULL DEFAULT ''::text,
       CONSTRAINT data_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id)
   ) TABLESPACE pg_default;
   ```

4. Go to project settings, click on the API tab, and copy the Project URL and anon public key.
5. Create a `.env` file in the project root and paste the Project URL and anon public key as mentioned in the `.env.example` file.

## Coding Guidelines

### Commit Messages

We adhere to the [Conventional Commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) guidelines for our commit messages. To streamline the process and maintain consistency, we recommend using [this extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vivaxy.vscode-conventional-commits) in Visual Studio Code for writing commit messages. Please ensure your commit messages align with these guidelines to facilitate clear communication and effective version management.

### Code Formatting

We've configured Prettier settings in `package.json` to maintain consistent code style across the project. If Visual Studio Code doesn't apply these settings automatically, please ensure to enable them manually. Consistent code formatting enhances code readability and contributes to a cohesive codebase.
